website/docs/flags.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Configuration flags and variables

FerretDB provides numerous configuration flags that you can customize to suit your needs and environment.
You can always access them by using the `--help` flag.
To make user experience cloud native, every flag has its environment variable equivalent.
There is no configuration file.

:::info
Some default values are overridden in [our Docker image](quickstart_guide/docker.md).
:::

| Flag                   | Description                                                               | Env Variable                    | Default Value                           |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `version`              | Print version to stdout and exit                                          | `FERRETDB_VERSION`              |                                         |
| `log-level`            | Log level: `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`                               | `FERRETDB_LOG_LEVEL`            | `info`                                  |
| `log-uuid`             | Add instance UUID to all log messages                                     | `FERRETDB_LOG_UUID`             |                                         |
| `metrics-uuid`         | Add instance UUID to all metrics                                          | `FERRETDB_METRICS_UUID`         |                                         |
| `state-dir`            | Path to the FerretDB state directory                                      | `FERRETDB_STATE_DIR`            | `.` (`/state` for Docker)               |
| `debug-addr`           | Debug address for /debug/metrics, /debug/pprof, and similar HTTP handlers | `FERRETDB_DEBUG_ADDR`           | `127.0.0.1:8088` (`:8088` for Docker)   |
| **Listeners**          |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `listen-addr`          | FerretDB address for incoming TCP connections                             | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_ADDR`          | `127.0.0.1:27017` (`:27017` for Docker) |
| `listen-unix`          | FerretDB Unix domain socket path. If empty - Unix socket is disabled      | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_UNIX`          |                                         |
| **Handlers**           |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `handler`              | FerretDB backend handler: 'dummy', 'pg', 'tigris'                         | `FERRETDB_HANDLER`              | `pg`                                    |
| `postgresql-url`       | PostgreSQL URL for `pg` handler                                           | `FERRETDB_POSTGRESQL_URL`       | `postgres://127.0.0.1:5432/ferretdb`    |
| `tigris-url`           | Tigris URL for 'tigris' handler                                           | `FERRETDB_TIGRIS_URL`           | `127.0.0.1:8081`                        |
| `tigris-client-id`     | [Tigris Client ID][tigris-docs-auth]                                      | `FERRETDB_TIGRIS_CLIENT_ID`     |                                         |
| `tigris-client-secret` | [Tigris Client secret][tigris-docs-auth]                                  | `FERRETDB_TIGRIS_CLIENT_SECRET` |                                         |
| **TLS**                |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `listen-tls`           | See [Securing connections with TLS][securing-with-tls]                    | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_TLS`           |                                         |
| `listen-tls-cert-file` | See [Securing connections with TLS][securing-with-tls]                    | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_TLS_CERT_FILE` |                                         |
| `listen-tls-key-file`  | See [Securing connections with TLS][securing-with-tls]                    | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_TLS_KEY_FILE`  |                                         |
| `listen-tls-ca-file`   | See [Securing connections with TLS][securing-with-tls]                    | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_TLS_CA_FILE`   |                                         |
| **Operation Modes**    |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `mode`                 | See [Operation modes](operation_modes.md)                                 | `FERRETDB_MODE`                 | `normal`                                |
| `proxy-addr`           | See [Operation modes/Proxy](operation_modes.md#proxy)                     | `FERRETDB_PROXY_ADDR`           |                                         |
| **Telemetry**          |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `telemetry`            | See [Configure telemetry](telemetry.md#configure-telemetry)               | `FERRETDB_TELEMETRY`            | `undecided`                             |

[tigris-docs-auth]: https://www.tigrisdata.com/docs/sdkstools/golang/getting-started/
[securing-with-tls]: /security#securing-connections-with-tls

Commit message:

Disable query pushdown if the corresponding flag is set (#2003)
Closes #1912.

website/docs/flags.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Configuration flags and variables

FerretDB provides numerous configuration flags that you can customize to suit your needs and environment.
You can always access them by using the `--help` flag.
To make user experience cloud native, every flag has its environment variable equivalent.
There is no configuration file.

:::info
Some default values are overridden in [our Docker image](quickstart_guide/docker.md).
:::

| Flag                   | Description                                                               | Env Variable                    | Default Value                           |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `version`              | Print version to stdout and exit                                          | `FERRETDB_VERSION`              |                                         |
| `log-level`            | Log level: `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`                               | `FERRETDB_LOG_LEVEL`            | `info`                                  |
| `log-uuid`             | Add instance UUID to all log messages                                     | `FERRETDB_LOG_UUID`             |                                         |
| `metrics-uuid`         | Add instance UUID to all metrics                                          | `FERRETDB_METRICS_UUID`         |                                         |
| `state-dir`            | Path to the FerretDB state directory                                      | `FERRETDB_STATE_DIR`            | `.` (`/state` for Docker)               |
| `debug-addr`           | Debug address for /debug/metrics, /debug/pprof, and similar HTTP handlers | `FERRETDB_DEBUG_ADDR`           | `127.0.0.1:8088` (`:8088` for Docker)   |
| **Listeners**          |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `listen-addr`          | FerretDB address for incoming TCP connections                             | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_ADDR`          | `127.0.0.1:27017` (`:27017` for Docker) |
| `listen-unix`          | FerretDB Unix domain socket path. If empty - Unix socket is disabled      | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_UNIX`          |                                         |
| **Handlers**           |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `handler`              | FerretDB backend handler: 'dummy', 'pg', 'tigris'                         | `FERRETDB_HANDLER`              | `pg`                                    |
| `postgresql-url`       | PostgreSQL URL for `pg` handler                                           | `FERRETDB_POSTGRESQL_URL`       | `postgres://127.0.0.1:5432/ferretdb`    |
| `tigris-url`           | Tigris URL for 'tigris' handler                                           | `FERRETDB_TIGRIS_URL`           | `127.0.0.1:8081`                        |
| `tigris-client-id`     | [Tigris Client ID][tigris-docs-auth]                                      | `FERRETDB_TIGRIS_CLIENT_ID`     |                                         |
| `tigris-client-secret` | [Tigris Client secret][tigris-docs-auth]                                  | `FERRETDB_TIGRIS_CLIENT_SECRET` |                                         |
| **TLS**                |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `listen-tls`           | See [Securing connections with TLS][securing-with-tls]                    | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_TLS`           |                                         |
| `listen-tls-cert-file` | See [Securing connections with TLS][securing-with-tls]                    | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_TLS_CERT_FILE` |                                         |
| `listen-tls-key-file`  | See [Securing connections with TLS][securing-with-tls]                    | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_TLS_KEY_FILE`  |                                         |
| `listen-tls-ca-file`   | See [Securing connections with TLS][securing-with-tls]                    | `FERRETDB_LISTEN_TLS_CA_FILE`   |                                         |
| **Operation Modes**    |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `mode`                 | See [Operation modes](operation_modes.md)                                 | `FERRETDB_MODE`                 | `normal`                                |
| `proxy-addr`           | See [Operation modes/Proxy](operation_modes.md#proxy)                     | `FERRETDB_PROXY_ADDR`           |                                         |
| **Telemetry**          |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `telemetry`            | See [Configure telemetry](telemetry.md#configure-telemetry)               | `FERRETDB_TELEMETRY`            | `undecided`                             |
| **Testing**            |                                                                           |                                 |                                         |
| `test-disable-pushdown` | Disable pushing down queries to the backend (to only filter on FerretDB)  | `FERRETDB_TEST_DISABLE_PUSHDOWN` | `false`                                 |

[tigris-docs-auth]: https://www.tigrisdata.com/docs/sdkstools/golang/getting-started/
[securing-with-tls]: /security#securing-connections-with-tls
