website/docs/telemetry.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 7
slug: /telemetry/
---

# Telemetry reporting

FerretDB collects basic anonymous usage data and sends them to our telemetry service ([FerretDB Beacon](https://beacon.ferretdb.io)),
which helps us understand its usage, and how we can further increase compatibility and enhance our product.
It also enables us to provide you information about available updates.

Your privacy is important to us, and we understand how sensitive data collection can be,
which is why we are not collecting any personally-identifying information
or share any of the data with third parties.

The following data is collected:

* FerretDB version
* Random instance UUID
* [Autonomous system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_system_(Internet)) number,
  cloud provider region, or country derived from IP address (but the IP address itself)
* Uptime
* Backend (PostgreSQL or Tigris) version
* Build configuration and installation type (Docker, package, self-built)
* Command statistics:
  * protocol operation codes (e.g. `OP_MSG`, `OP_QUERY`);
  * command names (e.g. `find`, `aggregate`);
  * arguments (e.g. `sort`, `$count (stage)`);
  * error codes (e.g. `NotImplemented`, `InternalError`; or `ok`).

:::info
Argument values, data field names, successful responses, or error messages are never collected.
:::

## Version notification

When a FerretDB update is available,
the telemetry service sends periodic notifications containing information about the latest FerretDB version.
This information is logged in the server logs and `startupWarnings` command output.

While you may not upgrade to the latest release immediately,
ensure that you update early to take advantage of recent bug fixes, new features, and performance improvements.

## Configure telemetry

The telemetry reporter has three state settings: `enabled`, `disabled`, and `undecided` (default).
The latter acts as if it is `enabled` with two differences:

* When `enabled`, the first report is sent right after FerretDB starts.
  If `undecided`, the first report is delayed by one hour.
  That should give you enough time to disable it if you decide to do so.
* Similarly, when `enabled`, the last report is sent right before FerretDB shuts down.
  That does not happen when `undecided`.

:::info
`undecided` state does not automatically change into `enabled` or `disabled` after the first or any other report.
Explicit user action is required (see below) to change an `undecided` state to `enabled` or `disabled`.
:::

Telemetry reporting is always disabled for [embedded FerretDB](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/FerretDB/FerretDB/ferretdb)
and can't be configured.

### Disable telemetry

We urge you not to disable telemetry reporter, as its insights will help us enhance our software.

While we are grateful for these usage insights, we understand that not everyone is comfortable with sending them.

:::caution
If you disable telemetry, automated version checks and information on updates will not be available.
:::

Telemetry can be disabled using any of the following options:

1. Pass the command-line flag `--telemetry` to the FerretDB executable with value:
   `0`, `f`, `false`, `n`, `no`, `off`, `disable`, `disabled`, `optout`, `opt-out`, `disallow`, `forbid`.

   ```sh
   --telemetry=disable
   ```

2. Set the environment variable `FERRETDB_TELEMETRY`.

   ```sh
   export FERRETDB_TELEMETRY=disable
   ```

3. Set the `DO_NOT_TRACK` environment variable with any of the following values:
   `1`, `t`, `true`, `y`, `yes`, `on`, `enable`, `enabled`.

   ```sh
   export DO_NOT_TRACK=true
   ```

4. Rename FerretDB executable to include a `donottrack` string.

   :::caution
   If telemetry is disabled using this option, you cannot use the `--telemetry` flag or environment variables
   until the `donottrack` string is removed.
   :::

5. Use the `db.disableFreeMonitoring()` command on runtime.

   ```js
   db.disableFreeMonitoring()
   ```

   :::caution
   If the telemetry is set via a command-line flag, an environment variable or a filename, it's not possible
   to modify its state via command.
   :::

### Enable Telemetry

Telemetry can be explicitly enabled (see [above](#configure-telemetry)) with the command-line flag `--telemetry`
by setting one of the values:
`1`, `t`, `true`, `y`, `yes`, `on`, `enable`, `enabled`, `optin`, `opt-in`, `allow`.

```sh
--telemetry=enable
```

You can also use `FERRETDB_TELEMETRY` environment variable with same values
or on runtime via `db.enableFreeMonitoring()` command.

   ```sh
   export FERRETDB_TELEMETRY=enable
   ```

   ```js
   db.enableFreeMonitoring()
   ```

One case when explicitly enabling telemetry is useful is if you want to help us improve compatibility
with your application by running its integration tests or just by testing it manually.
If you leave the telemetry state undecided and your test lasts less than an hour,
we will not have data about unimplemented commands and errors.

If you want to help us with that, please do the following:

1. Start FerretDB with [debug logging](flags.md) and telemetry explicitly enabled.
   Confirm that telemetry is enabled from the logs.
2. Test your application with integration tests or manually.
3. Gracefully stop FerretDB with `SIGTERM` or `docker stop` (not with `SIGKILL` or `docker kill`).
4. Optionally, locate instance UUID in the `state.json` file in the state directory
   (`/state` for Docker, current directory otherwise) and send it to us.
   That would allow us to locate your data and understand what FerretDB functionality
   should be implemented or fixed to improve compatibility with your application.

Commit message:

Update telemetry information (#2243)
# Description

<!--
Write a short description to explain changes that are not mentioned in
the initial issue.
    What were the reasons for those changes?
    Which decisions did you make and why?
    What else should reviewers know about your changes?
-->

## Readiness checklist

<!--
    If you want your changes to be merged quickly,
    please follow CONTRIBUTING.md.
-->

* [ ] I added/updated unit tests.
* [ ] I added/updated integration/compatibility tests.
* [ ] I added/updated comments and checked rendering.
* [ ] I made spot refactorings.
* [x] I updated user documentation.
* [ ] I ran `task all`, and it passed.
* [x] I ensured that PR title is good enough for the changelog.
* [x] (for maintainers only) I set Reviewers
([`@FerretDB/core`](https://github.com/orgs/FerretDB/teams/core)),
Assignee, Labels, Project and project's Sprint fields.
* [x] I marked all done items in this checklist.

website/docs/telemetry.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 7
slug: /telemetry/
---

# Telemetry reporting

FerretDB collects basic anonymous usage data and sends them to our telemetry service ([FerretDB Beacon](https://beacon.ferretdb.io)),
which helps us understand its usage, and how we can further increase compatibility and enhance our product.
It also enables us to provide you information about available updates.

Your privacy is important to us, and we understand how sensitive data collection can be,
which is why we are not collecting any personally-identifying information
or share any of the data with third parties.

The following data is collected:

* FerretDB version
* Random instance UUID
* [Autonomous system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_system_(Internet)) number,
  cloud provider region, or country derived from IP address (but the IP address itself)
* Uptime
* Backend (PostgreSQL or Tigris) version
* Build configuration and installation type (Docker, package, self-built)
* Command statistics:
  * protocol operation codes (e.g. `OP_MSG`, `OP_QUERY`);
  * command names (e.g. `find`, `aggregate`);
  * arguments (e.g. `sort`, `$count (stage)`);
  * error codes (e.g. `NotImplemented`, `InternalError`; or `ok`).

:::info
Argument values, data field names, successful responses, or error messages are never collected.
:::

## Version notification

When a FerretDB update is available,
the telemetry service sends periodic notifications containing information about the latest FerretDB version.
This information is logged in the server logs and `startupWarnings` command output.

While you may not upgrade to the latest release immediately,
ensure that you update early to take advantage of recent bug fixes, new features, and performance improvements.

## Configure telemetry

The telemetry reporter has three state settings: `enabled`, `disabled`, and `undecided` (default).
The latter acts as if it is `enabled` with two differences:

* When `enabled`, the first report is sent right after FerretDB starts.
  If `undecided`, the first report is delayed by one hour.
  That should give you enough time to disable it if you decide to do so.
* Similarly, when `enabled`, the last report is sent right before FerretDB shuts down.
  That does not happen when `undecided`.

:::info
`undecided` state does not automatically change into `enabled` or `disabled` after the first or any other report.
Explicit user action is required (see below) to change an `undecided` state to `enabled` or `disabled`.
:::

Telemetry reporting is always disabled for [embedded FerretDB](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/FerretDB/FerretDB/ferretdb)
and can't be configured.

:::info
Despite the autogenerated message by `mongosh` regarding MongoDB's free cloud-based monitoring service, please note that no data will ever be shared with MongoDB Inc.
:::

### Disable telemetry

We urge you not to disable telemetry reporter, as its insights will help us enhance our software.

While we are grateful for these usage insights, we understand that not everyone is comfortable with sending them.

:::caution
If you disable telemetry, automated version checks and information on updates will not be available.
:::

Telemetry can be disabled using any of the following options:

1. Pass the command-line flag `--telemetry` to the FerretDB executable with value:
   `0`, `f`, `false`, `n`, `no`, `off`, `disable`, `disabled`, `optout`, `opt-out`, `disallow`, `forbid`.

   ```sh
   --telemetry=disable
   ```

2. Set the environment variable `FERRETDB_TELEMETRY`.

   ```sh
   export FERRETDB_TELEMETRY=disable
   ```

3. Set the `DO_NOT_TRACK` environment variable with any of the following values:
   `1`, `t`, `true`, `y`, `yes`, `on`, `enable`, `enabled`.

   ```sh
   export DO_NOT_TRACK=true
   ```

4. Rename FerretDB executable to include a `donottrack` string.

   :::caution
   If telemetry is disabled using this option, you cannot use the `--telemetry` flag or environment variables
   until the `donottrack` string is removed.
   :::

5. Use the `db.disableFreeMonitoring()` command on runtime.

   ```js
   db.disableFreeMonitoring()
   ```

   :::caution
   If the telemetry is set via a command-line flag, an environment variable or a filename, it's not possible
   to modify its state via command.
   :::

### Enable Telemetry

Telemetry can be explicitly enabled (see [above](#configure-telemetry)) with the command-line flag `--telemetry`
by setting one of the values:
`1`, `t`, `true`, `y`, `yes`, `on`, `enable`, `enabled`, `optin`, `opt-in`, `allow`.

```sh
--telemetry=enable
```

You can also use `FERRETDB_TELEMETRY` environment variable with same values
or on runtime via `db.enableFreeMonitoring()` command.

   ```sh
   export FERRETDB_TELEMETRY=enable
   ```

   ```js
   db.enableFreeMonitoring()
   ```

One case when explicitly enabling telemetry is useful is if you want to help us improve compatibility
with your application by running its integration tests or just by testing it manually.
If you leave the telemetry state undecided and your test lasts less than an hour,
we will not have data about unimplemented commands and errors.

If you want to help us with that, please do the following:

1. Start FerretDB with [debug logging](flags.md) and telemetry explicitly enabled.
   Confirm that telemetry is enabled from the logs.
2. Test your application with integration tests or manually.
3. Gracefully stop FerretDB with `SIGTERM` or `docker stop` (not with `SIGKILL` or `docker kill`).
4. Optionally, locate instance UUID in the `state.json` file in the state directory
   (`/state` for Docker, current directory otherwise) and send it to us.
   That would allow us to locate your data and understand what FerretDB functionality
   should be implemented or fixed to improve compatibility with your application.
