website/docs/contributing/writing-guide.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 99
unlisted: true
---

# Writing guide

## File names

Use `kebab-case-with-dashes` instead of `snake_case_with_underscores` for file names because URL paths typically use dashes.

## Links

Please use markdown file paths for links, not URL paths,
because it works for both editors/IDEs (Ctrl/⌘+click works) and Docusaurus.
Always add `.md` extension to the file paths.
Examples:

* [file in the same directory](contributing.md)
* [file in a parent directory](../telemetry.md)

## Images

Please store all images under `blog` or `docs` in the `static/img` folder.
Also, you can collate images for a specific blog post inside a single folder.
Name the folder appropriately using the `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
For example, a typical path for an image will be `/img/blog/2023-01-01/ferretdb-image.jpg`

### Alt Text

Please remember to add an alternate text for images.
The alt text should provide a description of the image for the user.
When you add a banner image, please use the title of the article as the alt text.

### Image names

Use of two or three descriptive words written in `kebab-case-with-dashes` as the names for the images.
For example, *ferretdb-queries.jpg*.

### Image links

Use Markdown syntax for images with descriptive alt texts and the path.
All assets (images, gifs, videos, etc.) relating to FerretDB documentation and blog are in the `static/img/` folder.
Rather than use relative paths, we strongly suggest the following approach, since our content engine renders all images directly from the `img` folder.

`![FerretDB logo](/img/logo_dark.png)`.

## Terminologies

To be sure that you're using the right descriptive term, please check our [glossary page](../reference/glossary.md) for relevant terms and terminologies about FerretDB.
If the word is not present in the glossary page, please feel free to ask on Slack or in the blog post issue.

Commit message:

Use dashes instead of underscores or spaces (#2329)
Closes #2265.

website/docs/contributing/writing-guide.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 99
unlisted: true
---

# Writing guide

## Names and URLs

Use `kebab-case-with-dashes` instead of `snake_case_with_underscores` or spaces
for file names, directory names, and slugs because URL paths typically use dashes.

## Links

Please use markdown file paths for links, not URL paths,
because it works for both editors/IDEs (Ctrl/⌘+click works) and Docusaurus.
Always add `.md` extension to the file paths.
Examples:

* [file in the same directory](contributing.md)
* [file in a parent directory](../telemetry.md)

## Images

Please store all images under `blog` or `docs` in the `static/img` folder.
Also, you can collate images for a specific blog post inside a single folder.
Name the folder appropriately using the `YYYY-MM-DD` format.
For example, a typical path for an image will be `/img/blog/2023-01-01/ferretdb-image.jpg`

### Alt Text

Please remember to add an alternate text for images.
The alt text should provide a description of the image for the user.
When you add a banner image, please use the title of the article as the alt text.

### Image names

Use of two or three descriptive words written in `kebab-case-with-dashes` as the names for the images.
For example, *ferretdb-queries.jpg*.

### Image links

Use Markdown syntax for images with descriptive alt texts and the path.
All assets (images, gifs, videos, etc.) relating to FerretDB documentation and blog are in the `static/img/` folder.
Rather than use relative paths, we strongly suggest the following approach, since our content engine renders all images directly from the `img` folder.

`![FerretDB logo](/img/logo-dark.png)`.

## Terminologies

To be sure that you're using the right descriptive term, please check our [glossary page](../reference/glossary.md) for relevant terms and terminologies about FerretDB.
If the word is not present in the glossary page, please feel free to ask on Slack or in the blog post issue.
