website/docs/reference/operators/evaluation-operators.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Evaluation query operators

Evaluation query operators return data based on the evaluation of a specified expression.

| Operator           | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`$mod`](#mod)     | Matches documents where the field element is divided by a given value and returns a the specified remainder value |
| [`$regex`](#regex) | Matches documents where a field matches a specified regular expression query                                      |

For the examples in this section, insert the following documents into the `catalog` collection:

```js
db.catalog.insertMany([
   {
      product: "bottle",
      price: 15,
      stock: 1,
   },
   {
      product: "spoon",
      price: 500,
      stock: 0,
   },
   {
      product: "cup",
      price: 100,
      stock: 14,
   },
   {
      product: "BoWL",
      price: 56,
      stock: 5,
   },
   {
      product: "boTtLe",
      price: 20,
      stock: 3,
   }
])
```

## $mod

*Syntax*: `{ <field>: { $mod: [ <divisor-value>, <modulus> ] } }`

The `$mod` operator matches documents where the field element divided by a given value returns a specified remainder (otherwise known as a modulus).
The mathematical operation for this is `field-value % divisor-value = modulus`.

**Example:** The following query returns all the documents where the value of the "stock" field is evenly divisible by 2:

```js
db.catalog.find({
   stock:{
      $mod: [ 2, 0 ]
   }
})
```

The output:

```js
[
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e3ac0184f488929a3f737a"),
    product: 'spoon',
    price: 500,
    stock: 0
  },
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e3ac0184f488929a3f737b"),
    product: 'cup',
    price: 100,
    stock: 14
  }
]
```

:::caution
Note that the `$mod` expression returns an error if you only have a single element in the array, more than two elements in the array, or if the array is empty.
It also rounds down decimal input down to zero (e.g. `$mod: [ 3.5 , 2 ]` is executed as `$mod: [ 3 , 2 ]`).
:::

## $regex

*Syntax*: `{ <field>: { $regex: '<expression-string>', $options: '<flag>' } }`

Other syntaxes: `{ <field>: { $regex: /<expression-string>/, $options: '<flag>' } }` and `{ <field>: /<expression-string>/<flag> }`.

The `$regex` operator matches documents where the value of a field matches a specified regular expression pattern.

**Example:** The following query returns all the documents where the value of the "product" field starts with the letter "b":

```js
db.catalog.find({
   product:{
      $regex: /^b/
   }
})
```

The output:

```js
[
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e4ce469695494b86bf2b2d"),
    product: 'bottle',
    price: 15,
    stock: 1
  },
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e4ce469695494b86bf2b31"),
    product: 'boTtLe',
    price: 20,
    stock: 3
  }
]
```

`$options` is an optional parameter that specifies the regular expression flags to use, such as:

* Case-insensitivity (`i`)
* Multi-line matching (`m`)
* Dot character matching (`s`)

:::note
The regex flag for ignoring white spaces (`x`) is not currently supported.
Follow [here](https://github.com/FerretDB/FerretDB/issues/592) for more updates.
:::

To perform case-insensitive matching, use the `i` flag in the `regex` expression.

**Example:** The following query returns all the documents where the value of the "product" field is equal to "bottle" (case-insensitive):

```js
db.catalog.find({
   product: {
      $regex: /bottle/i
   }
})
```

The output:

```js
[
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e3ac0184f488929a3f7379"),
    product: 'bottle',
    price: 15,
    stock: 1
  },
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e3ac0184f488929a3f737d"),
    product: 'boTtLe',
    price: 20,
    stock: 3
  }
]
```

Commit message:

Update documentation definitions for operators (#2016)
# Description

Closes #2015.

<!--
Write a short description to explain changes that are not mentioned in
the initial issue.
    What were the reasons for those changes?
    Which decisions did you make and why?
    What else should reviewers know about your changes?
-->

## Readiness checklist

<!--
    If you want your changes to be merged quickly,
    please follow CONTRIBUTING.md.
-->

* [ ] I added/updated unit tests.
* [ ] I added/updated integration/compatibility tests.
* [ ] I added/updated comments and checked rendering.
* [ ] I made spot refactorings.
* [ ] I updated user documentation.
* [ ] I ran `task all`, and it passed.
* [x] I ensured that PR title is good enough for the changelog.
* [x] (for maintainers only) I set Reviewers
([`@FerretDB/core`](https://github.com/orgs/FerretDB/teams/core)),
Assignee, Labels, Project and project's Sprint fields.
* [x] I marked all done items in this checklist.

website/docs/reference/operators/evaluation-operators.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Evaluation query operators

Evaluation query operators return data based on the evaluation of a specified expression.

| Operator           | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`$mod`](#mod)     | Matches documents where the field element is divided by a given value and returns a the specified remainder value |
| [`$regex`](#regex) | Matches documents where a field matches a specified regular expression query                                      |

For the examples in this section, insert the following documents into the `catalog` collection:

```js
db.catalog.insertMany([
   {
      product: "bottle",
      price: 15,
      stock: 1,
   },
   {
      product: "spoon",
      price: 500,
      stock: 0,
   },
   {
      product: "cup",
      price: 100,
      stock: 14,
   },
   {
      product: "BoWL",
      price: 56,
      stock: 5,
   },
   {
      product: "boTtLe",
      price: 20,
      stock: 3,
   }
])
```

## $mod

*Syntax*: `{ <field>: { $mod: [ <divisor-value>, <modulus> ] } }`

The `$mod` operator matches documents where the field element divided by a given value returns a specified remainder (otherwise known as a modulus).
The mathematical operation for this is `field-value % divisor-value = modulus`.

**Example:** The following query returns all the documents where the value of the "stock" field is evenly divisible by 2:

```js
db.catalog.find({
   stock:{
      $mod: [ 2, 0 ]
   }
})
```

The output:

```js
[
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e3ac0184f488929a3f737a"),
    product: 'spoon',
    price: 500,
    stock: 0
  },
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e3ac0184f488929a3f737b"),
    product: 'cup',
    price: 100,
    stock: 14
  }
]
```

:::caution
Note that the `$mod` expression returns an error if you only have a single element in the array, more than two elements in the array, or if the array is empty.
It also rounds down decimal input down to zero (e.g. `$mod: [ 3.5 , 2 ]` is executed as `$mod: [ 3 , 2 ]`).
:::

## $regex

*Syntax*: `{ <field>: { $regex: '<expression-string>', $options: '<flag>' } }`

Other syntaxes: `{ <field>: { $regex: /<expression-string>/, $options: '<flag>' } }` and `{ <field>: /<expression-string>/<flag> }`.

To use regular expression for queries on particular fields, use the `$regex` operator.

**Example:** The following query returns all the documents where the value of the "product" field starts with the letter "b":

```js
db.catalog.find({
   product:{
      $regex: /^b/
   }
})
```

The output:

```js
[
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e4ce469695494b86bf2b2d"),
    product: 'bottle',
    price: 15,
    stock: 1
  },
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e4ce469695494b86bf2b31"),
    product: 'boTtLe',
    price: 20,
    stock: 3
  }
]
```

`$options` is an optional parameter that specifies the regular expression flags to use, such as:

* Case-insensitivity (`i`)
* Multi-line matching (`m`)
* Dot character matching (`s`)

:::note
The regex flag for ignoring white spaces (`x`) is not currently supported.
Follow [here](https://github.com/FerretDB/FerretDB/issues/592) for more updates.
:::

To perform case-insensitive matching, use the `i` flag in the `regex` expression.

**Example:** The following query returns all the documents where the value of the "product" field is equal to "bottle" (case-insensitive):

```js
db.catalog.find({
   product: {
      $regex: /bottle/i
   }
})
```

The output:

```js
[
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e3ac0184f488929a3f7379"),
    product: 'bottle',
    price: 15,
    stock: 1
  },
  {
    _id: ObjectId("63e3ac0184f488929a3f737d"),
    product: 'boTtLe',
    price: 20,
    stock: 3
  }
]
```
